Alright in this video we are going to look
at externalizing properties for messages.
And Spring has a lot of robust support
there as well and what we want
to do is add in a file. So under
resources I'm going to add in a file
called messages.properties. So I'll go to
that file now and there's a few things
that we can do as to how Spring and
Thymeleaf are displaying stuff. We can
customize those error messages that
we're seeing on the screen. The
first thing that I did is on line 2.
I did recipe.description so it's object
name dot property name is the syntax and
I wanted to have that description
display as capital D. So that's why I set
it up there and now the validation
messages, these are things that we can
set up to customize it. So rather than
just cannot be blank, I want to say
description can not be blank and have
a little more friendly user message. So
that's all part of the user experience
that we want our end user to have to be
friendly and the way this is going to
work is it's validation code, the object
name and then the field name. And then we
can also just do the validation code and
field name if we want to have something
more universal for a common property
name. And we can also do code and field
types .So based on a Java data type and
then just the code. So this is a whole
order of precedence and what I want to
do is, let's come over here to the test.
And I want to show you something here. And I added in another validation error
so that I could see that. So let's go
into debug on this and take a look at
that validation object. And I'm going to bring this up,
bindingResult. There's the errors object.
Now I can see codes. So see the codes, Max.recipe.cook Time
there. That it just highlighted so this
is going to tie to these properties. So
you can find the description. There's
a description and we look at the codes.
Now we can see NotBlank.recipe.description. So that's going to tie to
this property. So if it finds that it's
going to override the default so Spring
has default messages for this. So you can
see the default message has been set to
may not be empty and now I want to say
description cannot be blank. So
that's a quick way to do that and I want
you to understand that this
property here that I have highlight down
below is going to match this here. So I
just want to highlight that. So on line 10 that NotBlank.recipe.
description NotBlank.recipe.description as well .So that's how Spring
is matching up those messages and as I said
it does have a whole order of precedence.
So there's a lot of flexibility in this
model. I really like the way they did it.
So gives you a ton of flexibility in
setting up your messages. So let's go
ahead and take a look at that now. So I
do have Tomcat running and I've got to
refresh this and do the form post and
you can see I get description cannot be
blank. Description must be between 3 and
255 characters and right now we're
still on the defaults on these but if we
added in a property, we could do that. So
let's take a look at the URL. The URL
must be a valid URL. And so I'm
adding in a message for URL there and
please provide a valid URL. So we can see
that must be a valid URL. That seems a
little authoritarian to me. So let's provide a more friendly message.
we'll come in here and build it. So
Spring is going to trigger a reload and
come over here and let's refresh that,
force a form submit and now we can see
that message is now saying please
provide a valid URL. A little bit
friendlier. A little nicer aesthetics for
our end users.